Konstantin Samouylov received his PhD in probability theory from the Moscow State University, in 1985, and a Full Doctor of Sciences degree in telecommunications from the Moscow Technical University of Communications and Informatics, in 2005.
During 1985-1996 he held several positions at the Faculty of Science of the Peoples' Friendship University of Russia (RUDN University) where he became a head of Telecommunications System Department in 1996. Since 2014 he is a head of the Applied Probability and Informatics Department, and since 2017 he also holds the position of Director of Applied Mathematics and Communications Technology Institute (IAM&CT) at the RUDN University.
He was visiting professor/professor-research at Lappeenranta University of Technology and Helsinki University of Technology (Aalto), Finland; Moscow Technical University of Telecommunications and Informatics, Russia; Moscow International Higher Business School (Mirbis), Russia; University of Pisa, Italy. 
He was a member of the ITU-T SG11 and IFIP TC6 WG 6.7. 
He worked and works now in a number of r&d projects within different frameworks, e.g., COST IRACON, COST INTERACT, within projects of Russian Foundation for Basic Research (RFBR), TEKES (Finland) and companies including Nokia, Telecom Finland, VTT, Rostelecom, etc.
He is a member of editorial boards and reviewer of several scientific magazines, he is co-chair and TPC member of several international conferences. 
His current research interests include applied aspects of probability theory and stochastic processes, queuing and teletraffic theory, performance analysis of 5G/6G networks, resource allocation in heterogeneous wireless networks, wireless network slicing, IAB, URLLC and eMBB. He has authored and co-authored over 250 scientific and conference papers and seven books.
